EDU-12098 - Creating vtex-io-documentation-making-a-custom-component-available-in-site-editor.mdx (#1196)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/vtex-io/Storefront-Guides/concepts-1/vtex-io-documentation-making-a-custom-component-editable-in-the-site-editor.mdx

---
title: "Making a custom component editable in the Site Editor"
slug: "making-a-custom-component-editable-in-the-site-editor"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2024-06-13T23:32:05.853Z"
updatedAt: "2024-06-13T23:32:05.853Z"
excerpt: "Learn how to allow component customization directly in the Site Editor."
---

To allow component customization in [Site Editor](https://help.vtex.com/en/tutorial/site-editor-overview--299Dbeb9mFczUTyNQ9xPe1?&utm_source=autocomplete), you need to define the schema for each editable property and reference these definitions in the `interfaces.json` file.

In this guide, you will learn how to configure the schema definitions in your components, allowing users to customize them directly in the Site Editor.

## Before you begin

> Ensure your store has a [Store Theme](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-store-theme) developed with [VTEX IO](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-what-is-vtex-io) and [Store Framework](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/store-framework), according to the [Storefront](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/getting-started-3) guide.
> 
> Check if the [Builders](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-builders) are properly installed in your Store Theme. You must have at least the following builders configured:
> 
> - [store builder](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-store-builder): Enables the development of Store Framework storefronts.
> - [react builder](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-react-builder): Used to develop apps with [React](https://react.dev/) when your project requires customized frontend solutions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure your store has a [Store Theme](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-store-theme) developed with [VTEX IO](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-what-is-vtex-io) and [Store Framework](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/store-framework), according to the [Storefront](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/getting-started-3) guide.
- Check if the [Builders](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-builders) are properly installed in your Store Theme. You must have at least the following builders configured:
    - [store builder](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-store-builder): Enables the development of Store Framework storefronts.
    - [react builder](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-react-builder): Allows developing [React](https://react.dev/) frontend components. 
```
